Follow 1 packet:

Arrive at Network Card (NIC) -> Kernel receives the packet ->
Pre-routing: 1st Hook  (Accept or Drop)
Routing: Decides where to send the packet (local delivery, forward, or drop)
Input: 2nd Hook (Accept or Drop)
Local Delivery: The packet is delivered to the local application
App: The application processes the packet.


Major Chains:
Input: Handles packets destined for the local system. Like:- Any packet coming to this linux system.
Forward: Handles packets that are being routed through the system to another destination.Like a router. Like:- packet arrived at eth0 and leaves eth1.
Output: Handles packets generated by the local system. Like:- curl, wget, ping, etc.



--Input Chain->Forward Chain (interface to interface) ->Output Chain

Why the firwall is inside the kernel?
The firewall is implemented inside the kernel because it needs to operate at a low level in the networking stack to efficiently filter and manage network packets.
By being part of the kernel, the firewall can intercept packets as they arrive or leave the system, allowing it to make decisions about whether to accept, drop, or modify those packets before they reach user-space applications or are sent out to the network.


Packet: One network message.

Commands:
List rules: iptables -L
List rules with packet counts: iptables -L -v
List rules with number: iptables -L -n
List one chain: iptables -L <chain_name> example: iptables -L INPUT
Check iptables kernal module is loaded: lsmod | grep ip_tables

Difference between Drop and Reject:
Drop: When a packet is dropped, it is silently discarded without notifying the sender. The sender does not receive any indication that the packet was dropped, which can lead to timeouts or retries on the sender's side.
Reject: When a packet is rejected, the sender is notified that the packet was not accepted. This can be done by sending an ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) message back to the sender, indicating that the packet was rejected.
This allows the sender to know that the packet was not delivered and can take appropriate action, such as retrying or reporting an error.

